---
date: "2021-07-25 1:1:1"
draft: false
excerpt: Grid is the very first CSS module created specifically to solve the layout
  problems we’ve all been hacking our way around for as long as we’ve been making
  websites.
subtitle: "Balancing the tone, hue, and saturation to generate the perfect color gradients."
title: Creating your own color palette for data visualization-Part 1
weight: 2
---

In the first part of the blog, we focused on the color theory and color wheel discussing different ways to choose the color combinations that could be either complementary, triadic, tetradic, analogous, and monochrome. The color choice drastically varied the visual perception from being contrasting to having a soothing effect on our eyes. The combinations that were made were done purely by choosing different colors from the color wheel.

Here we discuss how new color combinations can be created by blending colors with either black, white, or gray. By varying the intensity of black, white, and gray beautiful color gradients can be created. The next section covers the basic definitions and brushes over the mathematical foundation without going deeper.

Now we will be focusing on alternative ways to enhance the visuals by understanding the effects of hues, shades, saturation, tones, tints, and luminance.

> “Mere color, unspoiled by meaning, and unallied with definite form, can speak to the soul in a thousand different ways”. ~Oscar Wilde

##Shades of black, white, and gray

The RGB values are specified as (red, green, blue) and the intensity of each color varies between (0,255). So, for a red color RGB value is (255,0,0), for green color it is (0,255,0) and for blue color it is (0,0,255). Sometimes, the intensity values are defined in the range of (0,1). The conversion is simply dividing the RGB values by 255. So, for the red, green, and blue colors the RGB values in the (0,1) scale will be:

```
Red color  |(255,0,0) is equivalent to (1,0,0)
Green color|(0,255,0) is equivalent to (0,1,0)
Blue color |(0,0,255) is equivalent to (0,0,1)
```

The RGB color combinations can be further tuned as:

**Shades** of color can be generated by blending them with black color. Black is (0,0,0) in RGB format.

## does this work?

### or this?

---

Let's start.

## beginning

## middle

## end